$Id: COPYRIGHT 89 2012-05-21 13:43:23Z frdo $

                  COPYRIGHT AND RIGHT-TO-USE LICENSE
                 ------------------------------------

1) The complete package and all files in it ('the Software') are

  (c) Crown Copyright 2012, Met Office

unless explicitly noted in optional file COPYRIGHT.extra. 

Use, duplication or disclosure of this Software is subject to the restrictions 
as set forth below.

2) The Software is not in any way commercial and is supplied 'as-is' and
without warranty, guarantee or formal support and for scientific or
research use ONLY. In particular it MUST NOT be copied in full or part, by
any means, and for any purpose, to any third party without the express
written permission of the Met Office. The Met Office retains all rights to
the Software.

3) By using this Software (or any component(s) contained in it) you are
deemed to have agreed to abide by this licence, which gives you
non-exclusive right to use the Software for your own R&D purposes only.

4) This Software (code, data files and documentation) is provided at no
cost and 'as-is' with no formal support, nor any guarantees that it works
as described on any other platform and/or compilers than used for the
prototyping - though the authors would be pleased to hear of any
portability problems (especially if they come with solutions).

5) The Software must not be used for any purpose other than for scientific
R&D and in particular, nothing in this package may be used in any way,
directly or indirectly, for commercial gain. It may be modified to suit,
and/or incorporated into non-operational local applications. Any local
enhancements, etc, should be reported back to the author so that they can
be used to improve the package for other researchers.

6) The authors reserve the right to continue developing this package to
meet their own needs. Updates may be released from time to time and
backwards compatibility is not guaranteed. Suggestions for improvements are
welcome, but may or may not be implemented, though any reported bugs will
be investigated.

7) If any code is required for operational processing, then written
permission for such use must be obtained via the authors. Note that this
does not provide any entitlement to formal support from the Met Office
unless explicitly agreed, and the Met Office reserves the right to charge a
licence fee for such use and for any support.


Met Office, 
FitzRoy Road, 
Exeter, 
Devon, EX1 3PB, 
UK


