./" $Id: gfz2ropp.1 3696 2013-06-17 08:48:37Z idculv $
./"
.TH gfz2ropp 1 31-Jul-2013 ROPP-7.0 ROPP-7.0
./"
.SH NAME
gfz2ropp
./"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Convert a GFZ 'PD' or 'NRT' text file pair to ROPP netCDF format
.PP
>
.B gfz2ropp
.I gfz-file
[-o ropp-file] [-d] [-h|?] [-v]
./"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gfz2ropp
converts a pair of 'PD' (Phase/SNR) or 'NRT' (BA/Ref) GFZ text files
(.dat & .dsc) to a ROPP netCDF file.
./"
.SH FILES
.SS Input
There is no default.
.I gfz2ropp
will stop after displaying a usage summary if no input file name is
given on the command line.
.PP
The command line should specify the principal '.dat' file name in full
(with optional path); the program will assume the companion '.dsc' file
has the same basename and resides in the same directory as the '.dat'
file. The input pair of files must contain a single profile
in the '.dat' file and it's meta-data in the '.dsc' file.
./"
.SS Output
The output will be created as a ROPP netCDF file, as described in
.B Reference 1.
The output file name can be specified with the
.B -o
switch, or by default will be the same as that of the input file(s) but
with a type of '.nc' in place of '.dat' and in PWD.
If this file already exists, it will be overwritten.
./"
.SH OPTIONS
Option switches are not case\-sensitive and may be placed before or after
the input file name and in any order. All arguments to switches are
mandatory when the switch is used.
.PP
.B -d
\- output diagnostics
.IP
Allows additional diagnostics to be written to stdout.
.I gfz2ropp
will print out, for instance, how many profile samples have been converted
for each ROPP section.
.PP
.B -h
or
.B ?
\- help
.IP
Requests brief help on the command to stdout.
.PP
.B -o
\- ROPP netCDF output file name
.IP
.I ropp-file
specifies the output file name. A valid file name, which may include a
path, is mandatory if this switch is present. A default name is generated
based on the base name/path of the input files, but with a type of '.nc'.
.PP
.B -v
\- version
.IP
Requests the program version ID to be written to stdout.
./"
.SH EXAMPLES
.B 1.
Convert a pair of GFZ text files (gfz1.dat & gfz1.dsc) into to one ROPP
netCDF file (here, gfz1.nc by default):
.PP
>
.B gfz2ropp gfz1.dat

 --------------------------------------------------------
                    GFZ to ROPP Converter
                     23:04UT 18-Jan-2012
 --------------------------------------------------------

 INFO (from gfz2ropp):  Reading file gfz1.dat
 INFO (from gfz2ropp):  Reading file gfz1.dsc
 INFO (from gfz2ropp):  Profile    1: OC_20090828011008_GRAA_G002_GFZ_
 INFO (from gfz2ropp):  Writing gfz1.nc

The date and time in the banner is the program run time.
./"
.SH ERRORS
Diagnostics relating to errors in I/O are output to stdout. Additional
diagnostics can be obtained with the
.B -d
option.
./"
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B 1.
ROPP User Guide- Part I
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/002
./"
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ropp2ropp (1),
.IR ucar2ropp (1),
.IR bufr2ropp (1)
./"
.SH AUTHORS
ROPP Development Team, Met Office <romsaf@metoffice.gov.uk>
