./" $Id: ropp_fm_bg2ro_1d.1 3551 2013-02-25 09:51:28Z idculv $
./"
.TH ROPP_FM_BG2RO_1D 1 31-Jul-2013 ROPP-7 ROPP-7
./"
.SH NAME
ropp_fm_bg2ro_1d
./"
.SH SYNOPSIS
One-dimensional bending angle and refractivity forward model.
.PP
./"
.B ropp_fm_bg2ro_1d
.I input_file [input_file...]
\-o output_file
.br
                 [-f] [-h] [-d] [-v] [-comp]
.br
                 [-check_qsat] [-use-logp] [-use-logq]
./"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ropp_fm_bg2ro_1d
Calculates refractivity as a function of geometric height and
bending angles as a function of impact parameter from a background
T,q,P profile. Each profile is assumed to be 1-dimensional (vertical)
at the given latitude & longitude.
./"
.SH FILES
.SS Input
One or more ROPP netCDF files containing one or more background profiles
of temperature, humdity and pressure. (See
.BR Reference\ 1 ).
The background profile will normally be horizontally (and perhaps temporally)
interpolated from an NWP model short-period forecast, and values given
on model level geopotential heights, but in principle could be from any source
such as a radiosonde or a standard atmosphere.
.SS Output
The output ROPP netCDF file contains the modelled refractivity and bending
angle profiles. (See
.BR Reference\ 1 ).
.PP
If the input file contains more than one profile (a 'multi-file') or more
than one input file is specified, the single output file will contain derived
profiles for all the input profiles.
./"
.SH OPTIONS
Option switches are case\-sensitive but may be placed before or after
the input file argument and in any order. All arguments to switches are
mandatory when the switch is used.
.PP
.B -check_qsat
\- include check for saturation
.IP
Includes a check against saturation in the forward model. By default,
super-saturation is allowed.
.PP
.B -comp
\- non ideal gas compressibility
.IP
The default is to use refractivity coefficients which assume
ideal gas without compressibility factors. (See
.BR Reference\ 2 ).
.PP
.B -d
\- diagnostics
.IP
Output additional diagnostics to stdout.
.PP
.B -f
\- forward only
.PP
Specifies that the gradient calculation (dH/dx) is not to be performed.
.PP
.B -h
\- help
.IP
Requests brief help on the command to stdout.
.PP
.B -o
\- output file (required)
.IP
Specifies the name of the output ROPP netCDF file.
.PP
.B -use-logp
\- use log(pressure) in forward model
.IP
The default is to use pressure in the state vector in the forward model.
.PP
.B -use-logq
\- use log(specifc humidity) in forward model
.IP
The default is to use specific humidity in the state vector in the forward model.
.PP
.B -v
\- version
.IP
Requests the program version ID to be written to stdout.
./"
.SH EXAMPLES
.B 1.
Forward model a background profile with compressibility factors and no gradients:
.PP
 >
.B ropp_fm_bg2ro_1d
mybgr.nc -o fmout.nc -comp -f
./"
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B 1.
ROPP User Guide - Part I: Input/Output module
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/002
.PP
.B 2.
ROPP User Guide - Part II: Forward model and 1D-Var modules
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/003
./"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ropp_fm_bg2ro_2d (1)
./"
.SH AUTHORS
ROPP Development Team, Met Office <romsaf@metoffice.gov.uk>
