./" $Id: <tool>.1 3551 2013-02-25 09:51:28Z idculv $
./"
.TH ROPP_1DVAR_ADD_BGR_ERROR 1 31-Jul-2013 ROPP-7 ROPP-7
./"
.SH NAME
ropp_1dvar_add_bgr_error
./"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Read a ROPP netCDF background file containing p, T, q and add an error
description (sigma values) to the data. Write resulting file.
.PP
./"
.B ropp_1dvar_add_bgr_error
   <bg_file> -c <cov_file> [-o <out_file>] [-h]
./"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ropp_1dvar_add_bgr_error
This program adds profile-by-profile background error values to a ROPP format
file by reading sigma values from the provided error covariance matrix files (in
the errors/ directory). Users should modify this program to utilise background
error descriptions from other sources.
./"
.SH FILES
.SS Input
The background file must be in the ROPP netCDF format.
.SS Output
The output file is the same as the input file but with revised errors on the 
state variables. 
./"
.SH OPTIONS
Option switches are not case\-sensitive and may be placed before or after the
<keyword|argument(s)> and in any order. All arguments to switches are mandatory
when the switch is used.
.PP
.B -c
\- cov file (required)
.IP
The covariance file holds the errors of the state vector in the variable
"sigma", usually in one of the "triangularly-formatted" ROPP covariance matrix
files - see
.BR Reference\ 2. 
.PP
.B -o
\- output file name
.IP
Specifies the amended model background file. Default: ropp_add_bgr.nc.
.PP
.B -h
\- show help
.IP
Requests brief help on the command to stdout.
./"
.SH EXAMPLES
.B 1.
Add/amend errors in background file:
.PP
 > 
.B ropp_1dvar_add_bgr_error
bgr_in.nc -c cov.nc -o bgr_out.nc
./"
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B 1.
ROPP User Guide - Part I: Input/Output module
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/002
.PP
.B 2.
ROPP User Guide - Part II: Forward model and 1D-Var modules
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/003
./"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR  ropp_1dvar_add_refrac_error (1), ropp_1dvar_add_bangle_error (1)
./"
.SH AUTHORS
ROPP Development Team, Met Office <romsaf@metoffice.gov.uk>
