./" $Id: <tool>.1 3551 2013-02-25 09:51:28Z idculv $
./"
.TH ROPP_1DVAR_ADD_BANGLE_ERROR 1 31-Jul-2013 ROPP-7 ROPP-7
./"
.SH NAME
ropp_1dvar_add_bangle_error
./"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Read a ROPP netCDF bending angle observation file and add an error
description (sigma values) to the data. Write resulting file.
.PP
./"
.B ropp_1dvar_add_bangle_error
   <obs_file> -Omod <Omodel> 
   [-o <out_file>] [-h]
./"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ropp_1dvar_add_bangle_error
This program calculates profile-by-profile bending angle errors according to a
user-defined error model.
./"
.SH FILES
.SS Input
The observation file must be in the ROPP netCDF format.
.SS Output
The output file is the same as the input file but with revised errors on the 
bending angles. 
./"
.SH OPTIONS
Option switches are not case\-sensitive and may be placed before or after the
<keyword|argument(s)> and in any order. All arguments to switches are mandatory
when the switch is used.
.PP
.B -O
\- Omod (required)
.IP
Observational error model to be used. Choices:
   '1%': 1% at 0 km, 0.1% from 12 km,min(std(BA))=6urad
   '2%': 2% at 0 km, 0.2% from 12 km,min(std(BA))=6urad
   '3%': 3% at 0 km, 0.3% from 12 km,min(std(BA))=6urad
   'MO : Met Office operational implementation
         latitudinally varying
   'EC': ECMWF operational implementation
.PP
For more details, see
.BR Reference\ 2. 
.PP
.B -o
\- output file name
.IP
Specifies the amended bending angle file. Default: ropp_add_bangle.nc.
.PP
.B -h
\- show help
.IP
Requests brief help on the command to stdout.
./"
.SH EXAMPLES
.B 1.
Add/amend errors in bending angle file according to the operational ECMWF
implementation:
.PP
 > 
.B ropp_1dvar_add_bangle_error
bangle_in.nc -Omod 'EC' -o bangle_out.nc
./"
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B 1.
ROPP User Guide - Part I: Input/Output module
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/002
.PP
.B 2.
ROPP User Guide - Part II: Forward model and 1D-Var modules
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/003
./"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR  ropp_1dvar_add_bgr_error (1), ropp_1dvar_add_refrac_error (1)
./"
.SH AUTHORS
ROPP Development Team, Met Office <romsaf@metoffice.gov.uk>
