./" $Id: ropp_pp_abel.1 3551 2013-02-25 09:51:28Z idculv $
./"
.TH ROPP_PP_ABEL 1 31-Jul-2013 ROPP-7 ROPP-7
./"
.SH NAME
ropp_pp_abel
./"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Tool to test Abel transform and inverse Abel transform routines.
.PP
./"
.B ropp_pp_abel
.I input_file [input_file...]
\-o output_file
.br
                 [-h] [-v]
./"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ropp_pp_abel
This program reads RO refractivity data from the input data files and calculates
vertical profiles of bending angles using the Abel transform. The inverse Abel
transform is then used to compute a new refractivity profile, which may be
compared with the input data.
.B (Reference\ 2.)
./"
.SH FILES
.SS Input
One or more ROPP netCDF files containing one or more profiles of RO data.
.B (Reference\ 1.)

.SS Output
The output ROPP netCDF file contains the bending angles and refractivities
derived from the refractivities in the input file.

.PP
If the input file contains more than one profile (a 'multi-file') or more
than one input file is specified, the single output file will contain derived
profiles for all the input profiles.
./"

.SH OPTIONS
Option switches are case\-sensitive but may be placed before or after
the input file argument and in any order. All arguments to switches are
mandatory when the switch is used.

.PP
.B -h
\- help
.IP
Requests brief help on the command to stdout.

.PP
.B -v
\- version
.IP
Requests the program version ID to be written to stdout.

.PP
.B -o
\- output file
.IP
Specifies the name of the output ROPP netCDF file.  Default: ro2ro.nc.

./"
.SH NOTES
.B 1.
This tool is obsolete.  Its function is now carried out by the  analagous
program ropp_pp/tests/ropp_test_abel, which goes further than this tool by
computing and reporting the differences between the input and output files. 
ropp_pp_abel_tool is included in the ROPP distribution in the hope that its code
may prove beneficial to some ROPP users. 
./"

./"
.SH EXAMPLES
.B 1.
To calculate bending angles (and hence refractivities) from refractivities
in one of the example (single-) files in the data directory:
.PP
 > ropp_pp_abel_tool ../data/ropp_pp_test.nc -o ropp_pp_test_out.nc

The refractivities in the two files may be compared.

./"

.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B 1.
ROPP User Guide - Part I: Input/Output module
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/002
.PP
.B 2.
ROPP User Guide - Part III: Pre-processor module
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/004
./"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ropp_pp/tests/ropp_test_abel (1)
./"

.SH AUTHORS
ROPP Development Team, Met Office <romsaf@metoffice.gov.uk>
