./" $Id: <tool>.1 3551 2013-02-25 09:51:28Z idculv $
./"
.TH ROPP_1DVAR_BANGLE 1 31-Jul-2013 ROPP-7 ROPP-7
./"
.SH NAME
ropp_1dvar_bangle
./"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Perform a 1D-Var retrieval of radio occultation data using bending angle observations and a background profile.
.PP
./"
.B ropp_1dvar_bangle
[-c <cfg_file>]  [-y <obs_file>] [-b <bg_file>]
                 [-o <out_file>] [-comp] [-check_qsat]
                 [-d] [-h] [-v]
./"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ropp_1dvar_bangle
Perform a 1D-Var retrieval of radio occultation data using bending angle
observations and a background profile.
./"
.SH FILES
.SS Input
All input files must be in the ROPP netCDF format
.BR (Reference\ 1 ).
The observation file must contain one or more observed bending angle profiles;
the background file must contain the same number of model background profiles.
These should be co-located with the observations and, in the case of multifiles,
the background profiles must be in the same order as the corresponding
observation profiles. The error correlation files for the observation and
background must also be specified
.BR (Reference\ 2 ). 
A configuration file may also be specified to override program defaults at run
time to give more control over the minimisation and QC.
.SS Output
The 1D-Var solution values are saved in a ROPP netCDF file specified by the [-o]
option. This is a multifile if multifiles are used as the inputs. The solution
model variables, as well as forward-modelled bending angles from the solution
state are ouput, as well as the errors of these quantities.
./"
.SH OPTIONS
Option switches are not case\-sensitive and may be placed before or after the
<keyword|argument(s)> and in any order. All arguments to switches are mandatory
when the switch is used.
.PP
.B -c
\- config file
.IP
The configuration file allows additional options to be specified, such as QC,
preconditioning and minimisation options.
.PP
.B -y
\- observation data file (required)
.IP
Specifies the input ROPP file containing observed bending angle data.
.PP
.B --obs-corr
\- observation error correlation file
.IP
Specifies the bending angle error correlation file in the required format.
.PP
.B -b
\- background data file (required)
.IP
Specifies the input ROPP file containing model background data.
.PP
.B --bg-corr
\- background error correlation file
.IP
Specifies the model background error correlation file.
.PP
.B -o
\- output file name (required)
.IP
Specifies the model background error correlation file.
.PP
.B -comp
\- Use compressibility option
.IP
Use compressibility factors in the refractivity calculation in the forward model
.PP
.B -check_qsat
\- Check against saturation
.IP
Check against humidity saturation
.PP
.B -h
\- show help
.IP
Requests brief help on the command to stdout.
.PP
.B -v
\- version
.IP
Requests the program version ID to be written to stdout.
./"
.SH EXAMPLES
.B 1.
Perform a 1D-Var retrieval using bending angle values in the input file and
including compressibility factors in the refractivity calculation:
.PP
 > 
.B ropp_1dvar_bangle
-y ba_obs.nc --obs-corr ba_corr.nc -b background.nc --bg-corr bg_corr.nc -comp -o solution.nc
./"
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B 1.
ROPP User Guide - Part I: Input/Output module
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/002
.PP
.B 2.
ROPP User Guide - Part II: Forward model and 1D-Var modules
.br
SAF/ROM/METO/UG/ROPP/003
./"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ropp_1dvar_refrac (1)
./"
.SH AUTHORS
ROPP Development Team, Met Office <romsaf@metoffice.gov.uk>
